Adds release announcement post for CLI for Microsoft 365 v6.7 (#1266)
pnp/blog: content/cli-for-microsoft-365/cli-for-microsoft-365-v6-7/index.md

---
title: CLI for Microsoft 365 v6.7
date: 2023-05-02T17:00:00.000Z
author: Martin Lingstuyl
githubname: martinlingstuyl
categories:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
images:
  - images/banner-cli-m365.png
tags:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
  - SharePoint
  - SharePoint Framework (SPFx)

> type: popular

Reviewer: We should update the type of the previous post to `regular`.

Reviewer 2: please downgrade this post to `regular` when you publish v6-7 post: 

https://github.com/pnp/blog/blob/main/content/post/Teams-toolkit-cloudskills-challenge/index.md

---

We've published a new minor version of CLI for Microsoft 365. 

> [CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform commandline tool. It helps you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. No matter which operating system or shell you use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform command-line tool. It helps you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. No matter which operating system or shell you use.
```

> Read the [release notes](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/notes) in full for all new features and improvements.
 
## What's new

### Retrieving Application Customizers

Our work on simplifying working with SharePoint Framework extensions, like Application Customizers, is steadily moving forward. Today we're launching the ability to retrieve a specific Application Customizer, regardless of where they are registered in a SharePoint site: 

Retrieve an application customizer by title:

```sh
m365 spo applicationcustomizer get --title "Some customizer" --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/sales
```

Retrieve an application customizer, registered on site-level, by clientSideComponentId:

```sh
m365 spo applicationcustomizer get --clientSideComponentId 7096cded-b83d-4eab-96f0-df477ed7c0bc --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/sales --scope site
```

- [spo applicationcustomizer get](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/applicationcustomizer/applicationcustomizer-get/)

### Clearing the SharePoint site recycle bin

> Working with the recycle bin programmatically has become easier as well. You can now clear a site recycle bin with a simple one liner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working with the recycle bin programmatically has become easier as well. You can now clear a site recycle bin with a simple one-liner.
```

```

Retrieve all files from a folder and retrieve the list item Id as well as the filename:

```sh
m365 spo file list --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/project-x --folder 'Shared Documents' --fields "ListItemAllFields/Id,Name" --recursive
```

The same works when retrieving folders:

Retrieve all folders for which the folder name starts with the word 'Demo':

```sh
m365 spo folder list --webUrl https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/project-x --parentFolderUrl 'Shared Documents' --filter "startswith(Name, 'Demo')" --recursive
```

- [spo listitem list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/listitem/listitem-list/)
- [spo file list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/file/file-list/)
- [spo folder list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spo/folder/folder-list/)

### Updating Azure AD Users

You could already update user information for Azure AD users. We've made managing users even easier, by adding a lot of new options. You can now update the user company name, preferred language, usage location, job title and office location and more. 

Update multiple properties of a user:

```sh

> m365 aad user set --userPrincipalName steve@contoso.onmicrosoft.com --firstName John --lastName Doe --jobTitle "Sales Manager" --companyName Contoso --department Sales --officeLocation "New York"

Reviewer: Looks a bit odd that __steve__@contoso.com has first name `John` and last name `Doe` 😄

```

> 

Reviewer: Could we also add an extra example on how to set the manager of the user?

- [aad user set](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/aad/user/user-set/)

> 
> 

Reviewer 3: Two empty lines instead of one 😄 

```suggestion

```

### And there's more

We've been working tirelessly to enhance our capabilities. How about support for non-public clouds? We've now got it! How about getting extra information when listing flow runs? It's now included.

Take a look at our release notes below for the full rundown of everything we've done. Check it out! We're very curious to hear your experiences.

> - [Changelog v6.7.0](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#v670)

Reviewer 3: Another big change imo in v6.7 is the prompt for option sets that's definitely worth mentioning in the post. Maybe we could even add a gif here that shows this change in action.

Author: Good point!

## What's next

Here are some things that we are currently working on.

### More commands and enhancements

We are always looking to add more commands to CLI for Microsoft 365. 

We are busy implementing commands across several Microsoft 365 services, such as Power Platform, SharePoint Online, and Microsoft Purview.

> If you have any ideas or suggestions for new commands, please let us know by creating a [new issue](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=new-command.yml&title=New+command%3A+%3Cshort+description%3E) in the GitHub Issues list, or reaching out to us on our [community Discord server](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/discord) to discuss.

Reviewer 3: It could be nice to add little tease here to the 🌶️ project

Author: Indeed! I will..

## Contributors

This release wouldn't be possible without the help of (in alphabetical order):

- [Ganesh Sanap](https://github.com/ganesh-sanap)
- [Martin Lingstuyl](https://github.com/martinlingstuyl)
- [Mathijs Verbeeck](https://github.com/MathijsVerbeeck)
- [Milan Holemans](https://github.com/milanholemans)
- [Nanddeep Nachan](https://github.com/nanddeepn)
- [Nico De Cleyre](https://github.com/nicodecleyre)
- [Saurabh K. Tripathi](https://github.com/Saurabh7019)

> - [Waldek Mastykarz](https://github.com/waldekmastykarz)

Reviewer 3: Adam, [Nicolas](https://github.com/nickscamara) are missing here and I guess me too 😅

Author: How are you getting these? I'm just checking the assigned-to fields of the accompanied PR's..

Reviewer: @martinlingstuyl `git log --format="%an" --after 2023-04-14 | sort -u` works for me

Author: Nice!!

Reviewer 3: Well, my method isn't anything fancy 😅 

I just look through all the commits on GitHub and look at the authors.

![afbeelding](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38426621/234663120-e88fd3d8-1656-4676-96c5-d52d1001efbf.png)

Author: Even that is simpler than opening the PR's 😅

### Enhanced prompts

When you run a command using the CLI for Microsoft 365, and forget to add a required option, the CLI can prompt you to enter a value for that option. (Tip: To use this feature, you'll need to [set the config key](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/cli/config/config-set/) `prompt` to `true`, as it's `false` by default.) But some commands may have options where at least one is required. For example, the user has to define either a userName or an id, but not both. We've enhanced the prompt feature to include these situations. Here's a gif of how that works in practice:

![cli-prompts](./images/cli-prompts.gif) 

### And there's more

We've been working tirelessly to enhance our capabilities. How about support for non-public clouds? We've now got it! How about getting extra information when listing flow runs? It's now included.

Take a look at our release notes below for the full rundown of everything we've done. Check it out! We're very curious to hear your experiences.

- [Changelog v6.7.0](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#v670)

## What's next

Here are some things that we are currently working on.

### 🌶️ CLI assistant

> In the previous release, we introduced a chat-based search tool, powered by Mendable, to make it easier to find out how you can achieve your aims using the CLI for Microsoft 365. But we are not stopping there. We're currently in the process of integrating this same chat-based experience to the CLI itself! You will be able to ask your questions to this new CLI assistent without even leaving your terminal! The assistent will search the documentation for you and explain how you can achieve your scenario, it will also list links to the sources where it found what its saying, for a seamless switching to the CLI for Microsoft 365 website in the browser.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the previous release, we introduced a chat-based search tool, powered by Mendable, to make it easier to find out how you can achieve your aims using the CLI for Microsoft 365. But we are not stopping there. We're currently in the process of integrating this same chat-based experience into the CLI itself! You will be able to ask your questions to this new CLI assistant without even leaving your terminal! The assistant will search the documentation for you and explain how you can achieve your scenario, it will also list links to the sources where it found what it's saying, for a seamless switch to the CLI for Microsoft 365 website in the browser.
```

![cli-assistent](./images/cli-assistent.gif)

🥁 You'll just need to wait a little bit for this functionality to be released.

### More commands and enhancements

We are always looking to add more commands to CLI for Microsoft 365. 

We are busy implementing commands across several Microsoft 365 services, such as Power Platform, SharePoint Online, and Microsoft Purview.

If you have any ideas or suggestions for new commands, please let us know by creating a [new issue](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=new-command.yml&title=New+command%3A+%3Cshort+description%3E) in the GitHub Issues list, or reaching out to us on our [community Discord server](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/discord) to discuss.

## Contributors

This release wouldn't be possible without the help of (in alphabetical order):

- [Adam Wójcik](https://github.com/Adam-it)
- [Ganesh Sanap](https://github.com/ganesh-sanap)
- [Martin Lingstuyl](https://github.com/martinlingstuyl)
- [Mathijs Verbeeck](https://github.com/MathijsVerbeeck)
- [Milan Holemans](https://github.com/milanholemans)

> - [Nanddeep Nachan](https://github.com/nanddeepn)

Reviewer: We're missing Jasey here.

Author: Sorry @Jwaegebaert

- [Nico De Cleyre](https://github.com/nicodecleyre)

> - [Nicolas Scamara](https://github.com/nickscamara)

Reviewer 3: The last name is incorrect. It should be Camara
